what's up guys Brendan offered here
hundred days of SEO
I'm so excited if you're new here my
name is Brendan huffard I'm the SEO
director at clicks Studios I've done a
ton of SEO consulting and agency work
and a bunch of my own projects
I am here in this hundred day project
producing a video audio podcast and blog
posts every single weekday for five
months with the goal of radically
transforming somebody else's life with
SEO the same way mine has today to day
today today we have Jason
Zook on for friends Friday I am so
excited
Jason somebody who's done a ton of
amazing projects he's made he's built a
million dollar business literally
wearing t-shirts for brands before
influencer marketing was even a thing
really before even YouTube and
live-streaming and vlogging were things
he was a daily vlogger like back in the
day when there wasn't even a word for
that he's this amazing person he's one
of the people that told me to quit my
job and instead of trying to pursue my
business full-time to go work for an
agency and learn the craft of SEO before
trying to go out on my own and I've just
absolutely fallen in love with my career
and where I'm at and I love clicks
Studios and being the SEO director there
and to say that he has had a huge impact
on my life would be a gross
understatement currently he and his wife
Caroline run an online community called
wander and Amy you can check that out
the link is in the description along
with all the other links that we're
gonna mention here today but I want to
dive into an interview that Jason and I
did not too long ago and just talk about
what is his approach to SEO what
mistakes do people make with content he
is such a unique take on things he does
everything it's actually the title of
his book that's coming out is do it
differently and that's something he
believes in it's something I believe in
it's the reason that I do link building
and s you a little bit differently for
our deal so let's jump into that
interview and I'll catch you on the back
end of it Jason thanks for coming on 100
days of SEO let's do it all so I'm glad
we're both in the blue shirt Club I
don't know if this is a mandatory thing
that you're gonna do but it's good that
we have this guy I'm into it I'm into it
right it's actually yeah it's gonna be
forever II guess it's actually
it's for our sponsor HRF good brand
color for them
cool man so I want to ask first you do
you've always done really well even with
all of your projects and folding one
site into the next and things like that
with search like what is your general
approach when it comes to SEO well at
first it was no approach whatsoever so
it's just write content that I thought
would be helpful or fun or interesting
that I would read and I think for a lot
of people they write content first for
SEO as opposed to writing like would a
human want to read this or would I want
to read this and I think a lot of people
they read back the stuff that they write
and publish they go and that's kind of
boring and you know it's not really fun
like I don't really care about that but
then as I got a little bit further I did
start actually thinking about SEO and
going okay there is a foundation of
stuff that I can do and so for me it's
very basic it's to write the article
first of the thing the topic that's on
my mind the problem I want to solve and
then go okay what is the key phrase or
the key takeaway from this and then I go
alright is that a word
or is it a key word and now can I pepper
that throughout the h1 the h2 the h3 is
it in the Meta Description is it in you
know like I use used for duck for work
WordPress is it in there properly and
that's really it like I don't think
about it beyond those things and I give
myself the permission to understand hey
the way SEO works this is probably not
gonna matter for a year maybe two years
and I've just seen that over and over
again it just takes so long for Google
to pick up things at least for the way
that I've been publishing so I try not
to think about it much more than setting
the foundation being thoughtful being
helpful in what I'm writing hopefully
interesting and then letting Google kind
of figure out the rest
mm-hmm so instead of taking like a
alright here's a keyword here's an
opportunity and then like pursuing it
from that it's like hey here's a
significant problem that I feel uniquely
able to solve and then I'm gonna like
really thoroughly solve it in this in
whatever I'm writing yeah and I think
that you can go both ways I mean if you
have like a niche site and you know like
a coffee roasting site or whatever like
our mutual friend matt did and that
makes sense to then do keyword research
on things about that
and then write articles about that but I
think for a lot of us who kind of own
our own small businesses or kind of just
generally like to write and share things
about our experiences in life it's hard
to search stuff to then write about it's
more about here experiences and lessons
I've learned in life and that I want to
share and I want to help people get
through fast for them and I got through
them and let me figure out how SEO fits
into that and maybe it doesn't for a lot
of those buts it does for some and then
that becomes all the traffic that you
hopefully need organically to help
sustain all the other stuff that doesn't
get organic traffic that you just keep
publishing because you'd like to publish
it hmm so kind of giving yourself
permission to publish stuff that like
hey this is not nobody's ever going to
search for totally but a lot of people
may share it and bookmark it and enjoy
it and it may bring them value but
Google's never gonna have an answer for
someone's question because it's not
something that people are asking Google
for it's more something that you came up
with and that's something I think about
too all the time I'm like is someone
going to Google to search for this
question oh they're not okay well that's
not gonna stop me from writing this
thing because I still want to share it
it's still helpful but if someone is
asking Google a question and I can
answer that question then I think it is
helpful to think about that content as
well but it's not to obsess over that
part of it because that's a losing some
game you're just gonna be chasing the
algorithm and the updates and the SEO
changes and all that stuff as opposed to
just writing what's unique to you that
you can constantly share and produce
content about mm-hmm so is that it
sounds to me like this isn't your
approach to SEO is not any different
than your approach to like creating
content in general not really I mean I
just try not to let anything dictate my
content creation that's out of my
control because once I do that then I'm
probably not really going to enjoy it
and I'm not going to create from a place
of actually enjoying it all the time and
it's gonna then just feel constantly
like work but I don't want to be doing
and it's work I have to be doing as
opposed is going like oh what do I want
to write about
okay cool some SEO terms fit into this
some key words and phrases whatever
awesome and maybe this has a chance to
rank and like one of those for me was my
how to start a business with no money
and no ideas article here with that
article in 2015 it's us now 2019 as
we're recording this on the home page of
Google
just now almost four years later it has
been dormant nothing has changed
it just randomly started getting picked
up now and I I don't know why and this
is the the kind of the magic of SEO is
you plant these seeds and it's like I
wanted to write that article long time
ago because I a lot of people asked me
about it
but Google didn't reward me for that
effort for many years and you know
that's not a sexy thing for people to
think about it look forward to but it is
just something to acknowledge and
understand yeah
I'd be so it's now that it's on
wandering Amy it's getting like picked
up more mmhmm yeah do you think it I
would guess it's because you kind of
fold it in so much into the new website
it's more authoritative and probably
picked up more links I don't know I
would just guess like that authority of
the website kind of like the rising tide
raises all the boats you know if you
have one thing get picked up on the site
and gets a lot of traction and get some
links and stuff and the overall site
authority goes up the everything else
will start climbing too I think it's
also the nature of maybe what people are
searching for and then clicking through
with those specific phrases so I think
like maybe a couple years ago people
wanted the entrepreneur calm article the
Business Insider article when they
wanted to start a business with no money
but then you those articles and they're
just worthless you know like yeah it's
someone who's never started a business
who's just trying to again like rank for
those keywords or whatever and I think
as Google is getting smarter and as you
know it's just becoming more human
result based things when you see a site
that's a person who has a business and
you can go to it and go like oh this is
a creative business oh I want to read
this article now it's not just some like
big entity so I do think that that's
also the shift where you can see like
hey if you have a smaller website or you
have a personal blog or you have you
know whatever it is you can actually
compete with the entrepreneurs of the
world the business inside there's all
these people because people want to read
stuff from people not just from
organizations yeah and I think we can
all agree that nobody enjoys reading an
article on Forbes ever no not at all cuz
you got to click the stupid thing to
turn your ad blocker off and no one
wants to do that so I'm like alright
good by Forbes like I'm not reading any
articles on your site because I don't
want all your ends every time so kind of
last question what are you like what's
one of the biggest mistakes that you see
people making especially beginners when
it comes to SEO
I think it's chasing after
trying to rank I think that's the
biggest mistake I think the the best
thing that you can do is be consistent
and authentic about the content that you
can create and if that's like a personal
blog about your life and you've you know
pepper in some lessons and things that
you've learned great let Google figure
it all out later or do what I did in
2014 which was I wrote consistently for
about two years it was a hundred and
like four weeks straight an article an
email and I literally did nothing with
SEO on any of them and then about two
years into that I think we started
chatting and I started understanding
some of the like the little things that
I could do and it didn't feel so complex
and so crazy then I went back in and I
optimized a couple of the articles that
made sense and that started to reward me
so it was less about from the beginning
thinking about ranking and more of oh
I've already created all this content
now can I go back in and do a little
Content audit and see alright what
actually is going to have a chance to
rank what are people potentially
searching for now that maybe they
weren't searching for two years ago that
I wrote about let me update those things
and I just think people go too quickly
to the like let me optimize all my
things let me try and rank everything I
got to write the perfect content blah
blah blah and you see that it just
doesn't work quickly enough for that to
be worth your time yeah I think that's
really good point awesome thanks for
hanging out man yeah absolutely hope it
was helpful alright guys so I hope that
that was super helpful here's what I
want you to do right now take action
subscribe to the podcast subscribe to my
youtube channel if you're watching this
on youtube or hop over the blog go to
100 days of SEO comm check out what we
have over there we're building up a
really cool five day SEO challenge where
you can actually make a tangible
difference in your business using SEO in
just five days head over there and I'll
catch you in the next video I've been
Brendan offered no no that's not my name
printed bumper
I've been running off or don't forget to
work hard be nice people and don't get
too lost trying to create something that
matters
[Music]